Title: Apache Lucene™ 9.9.0 available
category: core/news
URL:
save_as:

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 9.9.0.

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured search engine library
written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly any
application that requires structured search, full-text search, faceting,
nearest-neighbor search across high-dimensionality vectors, spell
correction or query suggestions.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and
improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release is
available for immediate download at:

<https://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>

### Lucene 9.9.0 Release Highlights:

#### New Features
 * Add int8 scalar quantization to the HNSW vector format. This
   optionally allows for more compact lossy storage for the vectors,
   requiring approximately 4x less memory for fast HNSW search.
 * HNSW graph now can be merged with multiple threads, leveraging the
   same infrastructure that inter-segment concurrency utilizes.

#### Improvements
 * Speed up Panama vector support, use FMA, and test improvements. 
 * FSTCompiler can now approximately limit how much RAM it uses to share 
   suffixes during FST construction using the suffixRAMLimitMB method. 

#### Optimizations
 * Faster top-level conjunctions on term queries when sorting by
   descending score.
 * Change Postings back to using FOR in Lucene99PostingsFormat. Freqs,
   positions and offset keep using PFOR.

... plus a multitude of helpful bug fixes!

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

<https://lucene.apache.org/core/9_9_0/changes/Changes.html>
