Title: Apache Lucene™ 9.12.0 available
category: core/news
URL:
save_as:

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 9.12.0.

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured search engine library
written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly any
application that requires structured search, full-text search, faceting,
nearest-neighbor search across high-dimensionality vectors, spell
correction or query suggestions.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and
improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release is
available for immediate download at:

<https://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>

### Lucene 9.12.0 Release Highlights:

#### Security Fixes
 * Deserialization of Untrusted Data vulnerability in Apache Lucene
   Replicator - CVE-2024-45772 

#### New Features
 * Improve intra-merge parallelism for many value types. (Ben Trent)
 * Add support JDK 23 to the Panama Vectorization Provider. (Chris Hegarty)
 * Match-time aggregation engine with improved flexibility and performance.
   (Egor Potemkin, Shradha Shankar)

#### Improvements
 * Add Intervals.regexp and Intervals.range methods to produce IntervalsSource
   for regexp and range queries. (Mayya Sharipova)
 * Remove support for writing 8 bit scalar vector quantization. 4 and 7 bit
   quantization are still supported (Michael McCandless )

#### Optimizations
 * Inline postings skip data to improve performance of queries that need
   skipping such as conjunctions. (Adrien Grand)
 * Optimizations to the decoding logic of blocks of postings. (Adrien Grand,
   Uwe Schindler, Greg Miller)
 * Avoid performance degradation with closing shared mapped segment data
   (Chris Hegarty, Michael Gibney, Uwe Schindler)

... plus a multitude of helpful bug fixes!

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

<https://lucene.apache.org/core/9_12_0/changes/Changes.html>
